Add "Build with AI" guide (#12019)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/build-with-ai.mdx

---
title: Building Astro sites with AI tools
sidebar:
  label: Build with AI

> i18nReady: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tableOfContents:
  minHeadingLevel: 2
  maxHeadingLevel: 4
i18nReady: true
```
This would allow you to next all the AI tools as `<h4>`s.

## Astro Docs MCP Server

The most effective way to ensure AI tools have current Astro knowledge is through the Astro Docs MCP (Model Context Protocol) server. This provides real-time access to the latest documentation, helping AI tools avoid outdated recommendations and ensuring they understand current best practices.

:::tip[What is MCP?]
[Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) (MCP) is a standardized way for AI tools to access external tools and data sources.
:::

Unlike AI models trained on static data, the MCP server provides access to the latest Astro documentation. The server is free, open-source, and runs remotely with nothing to install locally.

The Astro Docs MCP server uses the [Kapa](https://www.kapa.ai/) API to maintain an up-to-date index of the Astro documentation. 

### Server Details

- **Name**: Astro Docs
- **URL**: `https://mcp.docs.astro.build/mcp`
- **Transport**: Streamable HTTP

This server uses streamable HTTP transport, which may not be compatible with all tools. Check your tool's documentation for MCP support.

> ### Installation

Reviewer: Yup! We can specify max/min heading levels with [tableOfContents](https://starlight.astro.build/reference/frontmatter/#tableofcontents) in frontmatter!

:::

Refer to the [OpenAI MCP documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/mcp#test-and-connect-your-mcp-server) for specific setup instructions.

### Usage

Once configured, you can ask your AI tool questions about Astro, and it will retrieve information directly from the latest docs. Coding agents will be able to consult the latest documentation when performing coding tasks, and chat bots will be able to accurately answer questions about Astro features, APIs, and best practices.

### Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

- Verify your tool supports streamable HTTP transport
- Check that the server URL is correct: `https://mcp.docs.astro.build/mcp`
- Ensure your tool has proper internet access
- Consult your specific tool's MCP integration documentation
- If you are still having problems, open an issue in the [Astro Docs MCP Server repository](https://github.com/withastro/docs-mcp/issues)

:::note[Remember]
The Astro Docs MCP server provides access to current documentation, but your AI tools are still responsible for interpretation and code generation. AI makes mistakes, so always review generated code carefully and test thoroughly.
:::

## Discord AI Support

> As well as the friendly and knowledgable community support squad in the [Astro Discord](https://astro.build/chat), it also features an AI-powered support channel where you can get help with Astro-specific questions. This bot is powered by the same technology as the MCP server and has access to the latest documentation.

Author: I think it's too easy to misread as "private"! I think they're public enough if anybody can see them. In the context of a warning, I think that's safer wording.

> As well as the friendly and knowledgable community support squad in the [Astro Discord](https://astro.build/chat), it also features an AI-powered support channel where you can get help with Astro-specific questions. This bot is powered by the same technology as the MCP server and has access to the latest documentation.

Author: I think I'll do with your words, except with "public":

```suggestion
The same technology that powers Astro's MCP server is also available as a chat bot in the [Astro Discord](https://astro.build/chat) for self-serve support. Visit the `#support-ai` channel to ask questions about Astro or your project code in natural language. Your conversation is automatically threaded, and you can ask an unlimited number of follow up questions.

**Conversations with the chat bot are public, and are subject to the same server rules for language and behavior as the rest of our channels**, but they are not actively visited by our volunteer support members.
```

> As well as the friendly and knowledgable community support squad in the [Astro Discord](https://astro.build/chat), it also features an AI-powered support channel where you can get help with Astro-specific questions. This bot is powered by the same technology as the MCP server and has access to the latest documentation.

Reviewer: Excellent call! Better they see the word "public" and not "private"!

## Server Details

- **Name**: Astro Docs
- **URL**: `https://mcp.docs.astro.build/mcp`
- **Transport**: Streamable HTTP

This server uses streamable HTTP transport, which may not be compatible with all tools. Check your tool's documentation for MCP support.

## Installation

The setup process varies depending on your AI development tool. You may see some tools refer to MCP servers as connectors, adapters, extensions or plugins.

### Claude Code

[Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/overview) is an agentic coding tool that runs on the command line. Enabling the Astro Docs MCP server allows it to access the latest documentation while generating Astro code.

Install using the terminal command:

```shell
claude mcp add --transport http "Astro docs" https://mcp.docs.astro.build/mcp
```

[More info on using MCP servers with Claude Code](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp)

### Cursor

[Cursor](https://cursor.com) is an AI code editor. Adding the Astro Docs MCP server allows Cursor to access the latest Astro documentation while performing development tasks.

<Steps>

> 1. Click [Add to Cursor](cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=Astro%20docs&config=eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL21jcC5kb2NzLmFzdHJvLmJ1aWxkL21jcCJ9)

Reviewer: Just a note (applies to the following, too), I'm not sure whether we should have plain text links from docs that take actions like this? At the very least, there is very little context here that something is going to *happen* when you click, and that this is not a link to *information* about what is happening.

So, we'll need to figure out how to handle these.

The Cursor docs linked have a heading that explicitly says "One-click installation" and then show cards with an explicit indication that you are going to be adding something:

<img width="661" height="415" alt="Screenshot 2025-07-14 10 05 02" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/74ad9979-eac9-4c7d-9580-a77f35750b18" />

<img width="1090" height="335" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/022a2775-4c9d-4b5d-89d3-70e0c420c40e" />

VS Code's curated list looks like this:

<img width="1079" height="547" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/470d0de9-33e3-4785-a30c-68bfc19a1d33" />

So maybe we don't need "steps" so much as multiple cards (Add to VS Code, Add to Cursor)? (I'll also note, that if we adjust the page hierarchy, these would become `<h4>`s and not appear in the sidebar unless we specifically choose to show them.

Anyway, something to think about how this is presented!

Reviewer: I brought it up in our Team DX sync for ideas there too, but we do have both [Link Cards](https://starlight.astro.build/components/link-cards/) and [Link Buttons](https://starlight.astro.build/components/link-buttons/).

Anything strike anyone's fancy?

Author: I agree that a button is the best idea, because it's not really a navigation action

Author: <img width="788" height="546" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1ee80d0a-3085-4af8-beca-e441b9f3a43c" />

I don't love it, but it's better than the links.

Author: The design is complicated by the fact only two of them support one-click installs
